E-Maj
=====

E-Maj: logs and rollbacks table updates

Version: <NEXT_VERSION>


License
-------

This software is distributed under the GNU General Public License.


Objectives
----------

The main goals of E-Maj are:

 * log updates performed on one or several sets of tables.
 * cancel these updates if needed, and reset a tables set to a predefined stable state.

In development environments, it brings a good help in testing application, providing an easy way to rollback all updates generated by programs execution, and replay these processings as many times as needed.

In production environments, it brings a good solution to:

 * keep an history of updates performed on tables to examine them in case of problem
 * set inter-batch savepoints on group of tables,
 * easily "restore" this group of tables at a stable state, without being obliged to stop the cluster,
 * handle several savepoints during batch windows, each of them been usable at any time as "restore point".

It brings a good alternative to the management of several database disk images.

In both environments, being able to examine the history of updates performed on tables can be very helpful in debugging work or for any other purposes.


Documentation
-------------

A detailed documentation can be found [here](http://emaj.readthedocs.io) (in English and in French).


Supplied files
--------------

 * README.md                                   this readme file
 * CHANGES.md                                  change log
 * LICENSE                                     license information 
 * AUTHORS                                     who is behind E-Maj
 * META.json                                   meta file for PGXN
 * emaj.control                                extension control file
 * Makefile                                    the Makefile...

 * sql/emaj--2.0.1.sql                         extension installation script
 * sql/emaj--2.0.0--2.0.1.sql                  extension upgrade script from 2.0.0 to 2.0.1
 * sql/emaj--1.3.1--2.0.0.sql                  extension upgrade script from 1.3.1 to 2.0.0
 * sql/emaj--unpackaged--1.3.1.sql             script to register 1.3.1 as an extension
 * sql/emaj-1.3.0-to-1.3.1.sql                 psql upgrade script from 1.3.0 to 1.3.1
 * sql/emaj-1.2.0-to-1.3.0.sql                 psql upgrade script from 1.2.0 to 1.3.0
 * sql/emaj-1.1.0-to-1.2.0.sql                 psql upgrade script from 1.1.0 to 1.2.0
 * sql/emaj-1.0.2-to-1.1.0.sql                 psql upgrade script from 1.0.2 to 1.1.0
 * sql/emaj-1.0.1-to-1.0.2.sql                 psql upgrade script from 1.0.1 to 1.0.2
 * sql/emaj-1.0.0-to-1.0.1.sql                 psql upgrade script from 1.0.0 to 1.0.1
 * sql/emaj-0.11.1-to-1.0.0.sql                psql upgrade script from 0.11.1 to 1.0.0
 * sql/emaj-0.11.0-to-0.11.1.sql               psql upgrade script from 0.11.0 to 0.11.1
 * sql/emaj_uninstall.sql                      psql uninstallation script
 * sql/emaj_demo.sql                           psql demonstration script
 * sql/emaj_prepare_parallel_rollback_test.sql psql script to prepare parallel rollback demonstration
 * sql/emaj_upgrade_after_postgres_upgrade.sql psql script that adjust the E-Maj extension after a postgres upgrade

 * doc/emaj.<NEXT_VERSION>_doc_en.pdf          E-Maj user's guide in English
 * doc/emaj.<NEXT_VERSION>_doc_fr.pdf          E-Maj user's guide in French
 * doc/emaj.<NEXT_VERSION>_pres_en.pdf     	   E-Maj presentation in English
 * doc/emaj.<NEXT_VERSION>_pres_fr.pdf	       E-Maj presentation in French

 * php/emajParallelRollback.php                external php client for parallel rollback
 * php/emajRollbackMonitor.php                 external php client to monitor in progress rollback operations


How to install and use E-Maj
----------------------------

E-Maj can be installed using the usual method for postgres extensions (ie. CREATE EXTENSION emaj;).

The documentation contains all the [detailled information](http://emaj.readthedocs.io/en/stable/download.html) needed to install and use E-Maj.


E-Maj web GUI
-------------

Two web GUI tools are available to bring a user friendly E-Maj administration:

 * a plug-in for phpPgAdmin that takes benefit from the plugin architecture brought by phpPgAdmin 5.1+,
 * a stand alone php application, named Emaj_web.

Both tools share the same functionalities regarding E-MAj usage.

The **phpPgAdmin plugin** is available on [github](https://github.com/beaud76/emaj_ppa_plugin).

**Emaj_web** is also available on [github](https://github.com/beaud76/emaj_web).

Their installation and usage are also described in the [documentation](http://emaj.readthedocs.io/en/current/webOverview.html).


Support
-------

For additional support or bug report, please contact Philippe BEAUDOIN (phb <dot> emaj <at> free <dot> fr).

Any feedback is welcome, even to just notice you use E-Maj ;-)

E-Maj is also available on github (https://github.com/beaud76/emaj)

