docs/en/accessPolicy.rst, before:

Set-up the E-Maj access policy 
==============================

A bad usage of E-Maj can break the database integrity. So it is advisable to only authorise its use to specific skilled users.

E-Maj roles
-----------

To use E-Maj, it is possible to log on as *superuser*. But for safety reasons, it is preferable to take advantage of both roles created by the installation script:

* **emaj_adm** is used as the administration role ; it can execute all functions and access to all E-Maj tables, with reading and writing rights ; *emaj_adm* is the owner of all log objects (schemas, tables, sequences, functions),
* **emaj_viewer** is used for read only purpose ; it can only execute statistics functions and can only read E-Maj tables.

All rights given to *emaj_viewer* are also given to *emaj_adm*.

When created, these roles have no connection capability (no defined password and *NOLOGIN* option). It is recommended NOT to give them any connection capability. Instead, it is sufficient to give the rights they own to other roles, with *GRANT* SQL verbs.


Giving E-Maj rights
-------------------

Once logged on as *superuser* in order to have the sufficient rights, execute one of the following commands to give a role all rights associated to one of both *emaj_adm* or *emaj_viewer* roles::

   GRANT emaj_adm TO <my.emaj.administrator.role>;
   GRANT emaj_viewer TO <my.emaj.viewer.role>;

Of course, *emaj_adm* or *emaj_viewer* rights can be given to several roles.


Giving rights on application tables and objects
-----------------------------------------------

It is not necessary to grant any privilege on application tables and sequences to *emaj_adm* and *emaj_viewer*. The functions that need to access these objects are executed with the extension installation role, i.e. a *superuser* role.


Synthesis
---------

The following schema represents the recommended rights organisation for an E-Maj administrator.

.. image:: images/rights.png
   :align: center

Of course the schema also applies to *emaj_viewer* role.

Except when explicitly noticed, the operations presented later can be indifferently executed by a *superuser* or by a role belonging to the *emaj_adm* group.

Commit message:

Documentation: Add a chapter in the limits.rst page to describe limitations that may exist when a non superuser role installs the emaj extension using the emaj-<version>.sql script.

docs/en/accessPolicy.rst, after:

Set-up the E-Maj access policy 
==============================

A bad usage of E-Maj can break the database integrity. So it is advisable to only authorise its use to specific skilled users.

E-Maj roles
-----------

To use E-Maj, it is possible to log on as *superuser*. But for safety reasons, it is preferable to take advantage of both roles created by the installation script:

* **emaj_adm** is used as the administration role ; it can execute all functions and access to all E-Maj tables, with reading and writing rights ; *emaj_adm* is the owner of all log objects (schemas, tables, sequences, functions),
* **emaj_viewer** is used for read only purpose ; it can only execute statistics functions and can only read E-Maj tables.

All rights given to *emaj_viewer* are also given to *emaj_adm*.

When created, these roles have no connection capability (no defined password and *NOLOGIN* option). It is recommended NOT to give them any connection capability. Instead, it is sufficient to give the rights they own to other roles, with *GRANT* SQL verbs.

Let’s note that :ref:`both roles may not exist<roles_limits>` if the role who installed the extension had not the *SUPERUSER* privileges.

Giving E-Maj rights
-------------------

Once logged on as *superuser* in order to have the sufficient rights, execute one of the following commands to give a role all rights associated to one of both *emaj_adm* or *emaj_viewer* roles::

   GRANT emaj_adm TO <my.emaj.administrator.role>;
   GRANT emaj_viewer TO <my.emaj.viewer.role>;

Of course, *emaj_adm* or *emaj_viewer* rights can be given to several roles.


Giving rights on application tables and objects
-----------------------------------------------

It is not necessary to grant any privilege on application tables and sequences to *emaj_adm* and *emaj_viewer*. The functions that need to access these objects are executed with the extension installation role, i.e. a *superuser* role.


Synthesis
---------

The following schema represents the recommended rights organisation for an E-Maj administrator.

.. image:: images/rights.png
   :align: center

Of course the schema also applies to *emaj_viewer* role.

Except when explicitly noticed, the operations presented later can be indifferently executed by a *superuser* or by a role belonging to the *emaj_adm* group.
