docs/en/content.rst, before:

E-Maj distribution content
==========================

Once :doc:`installed <install>`, an E-Maj version contents the following files.

+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Files                                       | Usage                                                               |
+=============================================+=====================================================================+
| sql/emaj--2.3.1.sql                         | installation script of the extension                                |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj--2.3.0--2.3.1.sql                  | extension upgrade script from 2.3.0 to 2.3.1                        |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj--2.2.3--2.3.0.sql                  | extension upgrade script from 2.2.3 to 2.3.0                        |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj--2.2.2--2.2.3.sql                  | extension upgrade script from 2.2.2 to 2.2.3                        |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj--2.2.1--2.2.2.sql                  | extension upgrade script from 2.2.1 to 2.2.2                        |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj--2.2.0--2.2.1.sql                  | extension upgrade script from 2.2.0 to 2.2.1                        |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj--2.1.0--2.2.0.sql                  | extension upgrade script from 2.1.0 to 2.2.0                        |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj--2.0.1--2.1.0.sql                  | extension upgrade script from 2.0.1 to 2.1.0                        |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj--2.0.0--2.0.1.sql                  | extension upgrade script from 2.0.0 to 2.0.1                        |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj--1.3.1--2.0.0.sql                  | extension upgrade script from 1.3.1 to 2.0.0                        |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj--unpackaged--1.3.1.sql             | script that transforms an existing 1.3.1 version into extension     |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj-1.3.0-to-1.3.1.sql                 | psql script that upgrades a 1.3.0 version                           |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj-1.2.0-to-1.3.0.sql                 | psql script that upgrades a 1.2.0 E-Maj version                     |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj-1.1.0-to-1.2.0.sql                 | psql script that upgrades a 1.1.0 E-Maj version                     |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj-1.0.2-to-1.1.0.sql                 | psql script that upgrades a 1.0.2 E-Maj version                     |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj-1.0.1-to-1.0.2.sql                 | psql script that upgrades a 1.0.1 E-Maj version                     |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj-1.0.0-to-1.0.1.sql                 | psql script that upgrades a 1.0.0 E-Maj version                     |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj-0.11.1-to-1.0.0.sql                | psql script that upgrades a 0.11.1 E-Maj version                    |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj-0.11.0-to-0.11.1.sql               | psql script that upgrades a 0.11.0 E-Maj version                    |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj_demo.sql                           | psql E-Maj demonstration script                                     |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj_prepare_parallel_rollback_test.sql | psql test script for parallel rollbacks                             |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj_uninstall.sql                      | psql script to uninstall the E-Maj components                       |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| README.md                                   | reduced extension's documentation                                   |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| CHANGES.md                                  | release notes                                                       |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| AUTHORS.md                                  | who are the authors                                                 |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| LICENSE                                     | information about E-Maj license                                     |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| META.json                                   | technical data for PGXN                                             |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| emaj.control                                | extension control file used by the integrated extensions management |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| doc/Emaj.<version>_doc_en.pdf               | English version of the full E-Maj documentation                     |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| doc/Emaj.<version>_doc_fr.pdf               | French version of the full E-Maj documentation                      |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| doc/Emaj.<version>_pres.en.odp              | English version of the E-Maj presentation                           |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| doc/Emaj.<version>_pres.fr.odp              | French version of the E-Maj presentation                            |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| doc/Emaj.<version>_pres.en.pdf              | English version of the E-Maj presentation (pdf version)             |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| doc/Emaj.<version>_pres.fr.pdf              | French version of the E-Maj presentation (pdf version)              |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| client/emajParallelRollback.php             | php tool for parallel rollback                                      |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| client/emajParallelRollback.pl              | perl tool for parallel rollback                                     |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| client/emajRollbackMonitor.php              | php tool for rollbacks monitoring                                   |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| client/emajRollbackMonitor.pl               | perl tool for rollbacks monitoring                                  |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+

Commit message:

Add an installation script allowing to create emaj not as an EXTENSION. This is required for instance in some cloud environments that do not permit to create EXTENSIONs that are not already packed with the PostgreSQL core project. This new script is named emaj-devel.sql. A new perl routine, create_sql_install_script.pl, creates this new .sql scripts directly from the emaj--devel.sql version. Adjust also the emaj_uninstall.sql script and some other delivered scripts to match the specific characteristics of this installation. Add a scenario in the regression test suite, mapped on the standart tests, but using an installation via the new psql script.

docs/en/content.rst, after:

E-Maj distribution content
==========================

Once :doc:`installed <install>`, an E-Maj version contents the following files.

+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Files                                       | Usage                                                               |
+=============================================+=====================================================================+
| sql/emaj--2.3.1.sql                         | installation script of the extension                                |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj--2.3.0--2.3.1.sql                  | extension upgrade script from 2.3.0 to 2.3.1                        |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj--2.2.3--2.3.0.sql                  | extension upgrade script from 2.2.3 to 2.3.0                        |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj--2.2.2--2.2.3.sql                  | extension upgrade script from 2.2.2 to 2.2.3                        |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj--2.2.1--2.2.2.sql                  | extension upgrade script from 2.2.1 to 2.2.2                        |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj--2.2.0--2.2.1.sql                  | extension upgrade script from 2.2.0 to 2.2.1                        |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj--2.1.0--2.2.0.sql                  | extension upgrade script from 2.1.0 to 2.2.0                        |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj--2.0.1--2.1.0.sql                  | extension upgrade script from 2.0.1 to 2.1.0                        |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj--2.0.0--2.0.1.sql                  | extension upgrade script from 2.0.0 to 2.0.1                        |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj--1.3.1--2.0.0.sql                  | extension upgrade script from 1.3.1 to 2.0.0                        |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj--unpackaged--1.3.1.sql             | script that transforms an existing 1.3.1 version into extension     |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj-1.3.0-to-1.3.1.sql                 | psql script that upgrades a 1.3.0 version                           |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj-1.2.0-to-1.3.0.sql                 | psql script that upgrades a 1.2.0 E-Maj version                     |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj-1.1.0-to-1.2.0.sql                 | psql script that upgrades a 1.1.0 E-Maj version                     |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj-1.0.2-to-1.1.0.sql                 | psql script that upgrades a 1.0.2 E-Maj version                     |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj-1.0.1-to-1.0.2.sql                 | psql script that upgrades a 1.0.1 E-Maj version                     |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj-1.0.0-to-1.0.1.sql                 | psql script that upgrades a 1.0.0 E-Maj version                     |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj-0.11.1-to-1.0.0.sql                | psql script that upgrades a 0.11.1 E-Maj version                    |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj-0.11.0-to-0.11.1.sql               | psql script that upgrades a 0.11.0 E-Maj version                    |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj-3.0.0.sql                          | psql script that creates the extension                              |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj_demo.sql                           | psql E-Maj demonstration script                                     |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj_prepare_parallel_rollback_test.sql | psql test script for parallel rollbacks                             |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sql/emaj_uninstall.sql                      | psql script to uninstall the E-Maj components                       |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| README.md                                   | reduced extension's documentation                                   |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| CHANGES.md                                  | release notes                                                       |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| AUTHORS.md                                  | who are the authors                                                 |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| LICENSE                                     | information about E-Maj license                                     |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| META.json                                   | technical data for PGXN                                             |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| emaj.control                                | extension control file used by the integrated extensions management |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| doc/Emaj.<version>_doc_en.pdf               | English version of the full E-Maj documentation                     |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| doc/Emaj.<version>_doc_fr.pdf               | French version of the full E-Maj documentation                      |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| doc/Emaj.<version>_pres.en.odp              | English version of the E-Maj presentation                           |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| doc/Emaj.<version>_pres.fr.odp              | French version of the E-Maj presentation                            |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| doc/Emaj.<version>_pres.en.pdf              | English version of the E-Maj presentation (pdf version)             |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| doc/Emaj.<version>_pres.fr.pdf              | French version of the E-Maj presentation (pdf version)              |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| client/emajParallelRollback.php             | php tool for parallel rollback                                      |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| client/emajParallelRollback.pl              | perl tool for parallel rollback                                     |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| client/emajRollbackMonitor.php              | php tool for rollbacks monitoring                                   |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| client/emajRollbackMonitor.pl               | perl tool for rollbacks monitoring                                  |
+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
