docs/en/groupsCreationFunctions.rst, before:

Creating and dropping tables groups
===================================

Tables groups configuration principles
--------------------------------------

Configuring a tables group consists in:

* defining the tables group characteristics,
* defining the tables and sequences to assign to the group,
* optionnaly, defining some specific properties for each table.

The tables group
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A tables group is identified by its **name**. Thus, the name must be unique withing the database. A tables group name contains at least 1 character. It may contain spaces and/or any punctuation characters. But it is advisable to avoid commas, single or double quotes.

At creation time, the :ref:`ROLLBACKABLE or AUDIT_ONLY <tables_group>` property of the group must be set. Note that this property cannot be modified once the tables group is created. If it needs to be changed, the tables group must be dropped and then recreated.

The tables and sequences to assign
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A tables group can contain tables and/or sequences belonging to one or several schemas.

All tables of a schema are not necessarily member of the same group. Some of them can belong to another group. Some others can belong to any group.

But **at a given time**, a table or a sequence cannot be assigned to more than **one tables group**.

.. caution::

   To guarantee the integrity of tables managed by E-Maj, it is essential to take a particular attention to the tables groups content definition. If a table were missing, its content would be out of synchronisation with other tables it is related to, after an E-Maj rollback operation. In particular, when application tables are created or suppressed, it is important to always maintain an up-to-date groups configuration.

All tables assigned to a *ROLLBACKABLE* group must have an explicit primary key (*PRIMARY KEY* clause in *CREATE TABLE* or *ALTER TABLE*).

E-Maj can process elementary partitions of partitionned tables created with the declarative DDL (with PostgreSQL 10+). They are processed as any other tables. However, as there is no need to protect mother tables, which remain empty, E-Maj refuses to include them in tables groups. All partitions of a partitionned table do not need to belong to a tables group. Partitions of a partitionned table can be assigned to different tables groups.

By their nature, *TEMPORARY TABLE* are not supported by E-Maj. *UNLOGGED* tables and tables created as *WITH OIDS* can only be members of *AUDIT_ONLY* tables groups.

If a sequence is associated to an application table, it is advisable to assign it into the same group as its table, so that, in case of E-maj rollback, the sequence can be reset to its state at the set mark time. If it were not the case, an E-Maj rollback would simply generate a hole in the sequence values.

E-Maj log tables and sequences should NOT be assigned in a tables group.

.. _table_emaj_properties:

Specific tables properties
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Three properties are associated to tables assigned to tables group:

* priority level,
* tablespace for log data,
* tablespace for log index.

The **priority** level is of type *INTEGER*. It is *NULL* by default. It defines a priority order in E-Maj tables processing. This can be espacialy useful at table lock time. Indeed, by locking tables in the same order as what is typically done by applications, it may reduce the risk of deadlock. E-Maj functions process tables in priority ascending order, *NULL* being processed last. For a same priority level, tables are processed in alphabetic order of schema name and table name.

To optimize performances of E-Maj installations having a large number of tables, it may be useful to spread log tables and their index on several tablespaces. Two properties are available to specify:

* the name of the tablespace to use for the log table of an application table,
* the name of the tablespace to use for the index of the log table.

By default, these properties have a *NULL* value, meaning that the default tablespace of the current session at tables group creation is used.

.. _emaj_create_group:

Create a tables group
---------------------

To create a tables group, just execute the following SQL statement::

   SELECT emaj.emaj_create_group('<group.name>',<is_rollbackable>);

The second parameter, of type boolean, indicates whether the group's type is *ROLLBACKABLE* (with value *TRUE*) or *AUDIT_ONLY* (with value *FALSE*). If this second parameter is not supplied, the group is considered *ROLLBACKABLE*.

The function returns the number of created groups, i.e. 1.

.. _assign_table_sequence:

Assign tables and sequences into a tables group
-----------------------------------------------

Six functions allow to assign one or several tables or sequences to a group.

To add one or several tables into a tables group::

   SELECT emaj.emaj_assign_table('<schema>', '<table>', '<groupe.name>' [,'<properties>' [,'<mark>']]);

or::

   SELECT emaj.emaj_assign_tables('<schema>', '<tables.array>', '<group.name>' [,'<properties>' [,'<mark>']] );

or::

   SELECT emaj.emaj_assign_tables('<schema>', '<tables.to.include.filter>', '<tables.to.exclude.filter>', '<group.name>' [,'<properties>' [,'<mark>']] );

To add one or several sequences into a tables group::

   SELECT emaj.emaj_assign_sequence('<schema>', '<sequence>', '<group.name>' [,'<mark>'] );

or::

   SELECT emaj.emaj_assign_sequences('<schema>', '<sequences.array>', '<group.name>' [,'<mark>'] );

or::

   SELECT emaj.emaj_assign_sequences('<schema>', '<sequences.to.include.filter>', '<sequences.to.exclude.filter>', '<group.name>' [,'<mark>'] );

For functions processing several tables or sequences in a single operation, the list of tables or sequences to process is:

* either provided by a parameter of type TEXT array, 
* or built with two regular expressions provided as parameters.

A TEXT array is typically expressed with a syntax like::

   ARRAY[‘element_1’,’ element_2’, ...]

Both regular expressions follow the POSIX rules. Refer to the PostgreSQL documentation for more details. The first one defines a filter that selects the tables of the schema. The second one defines an exclusion filter applied on the selected tables. For instance:

To select all tables or sequences of the schema my_schema::

   'my_schema', '.*', ''

To select all tables of this schema and whose name start with 'tbl'::

   'my_schema', '^tbl.*', ''

To select all tables of this schema and whose name start with ‘tbl’, except those who end with ‘_sav’::

   'my_schema', '^tbl.*', '_sav$'

The functions assigning tables or sequences to tables groups that build their selection with regular expressions take into account the context of the tables or sequences. Are not selected for instance: tables or sequences already assigned, or tables without primary key for *rollbackable* groups, or tables declared *UNLOGGED*.

The *<properties>* parameter of functions that assign tables to a group allows to set values to some properties for the table or tables. Of type *JSONB*, its value can be set like this::

   '{ "priority" : <n> , "log_data_tablespace" : "<xxx>" , "log_index_tablespace" : "<yyy>" }'

where:

* <n> is the priority level for the table or tables
* <xxx> is the name of the tablespace to handle log tables
* <yyy> is the name of the tablespace to handle log indexes

If one of these properties is not set, its value is considered *NULL*.

If specific tablespaces are referenced for any log table or log index, these tablespaces must exist before the function's execution.

For all these functions, an exclusive lock is set on each table of the concerned table groups, so that the groups stability can be guaranted during these operations.

All these functions return the number of assigned tables or sequences.

The tables assignment functions create all the needed log tables, the log functions and triggers, as well as the triggers that process the execution of *TRUNCATE* SQL statements. They also create the log schemas if needed.

.. _emaj_drop_group:

Drop a tables group
-------------------

To drop a tables group previously created by the :ref:`emaj_create_group() <emaj_create_group>` function, this group must be already in *IDLE* state. If it is not the case, the :ref:`emaj_stop_group() <emaj_stop_group>` function has to be used first.

Then, just execute the SQL command::

   SELECT emaj.emaj_drop_group('<group.name>');

The function returns the number of tables and sequences contained in the group.

For this tables group, the *emaj_drop_group()* function drops all the objects that have been created by the assignment functions: log tables, sequences, functions and triggers.

The function also drops all log schemas that are now useless.

The locks set by this operation can lead to deadlock. If the deadlock processing impacts the execution of the E-Maj function, the error is trapped and the lock operation is repeated, with a maximum of 5 attempts.

Commit message:

Remove the SECURITY DEFINER option on the _create_tbl() function. As a result, the user or emaj_adm must have been granted the CREATE privilege on the tablespaces used to hold log tables or indexes. This was in fact a security hole. Remove the same SECURITY DEFINER option on _change_log_data_tsp_tbl() and _change_log_index_tsp_tbl() functions as well.

docs/en/groupsCreationFunctions.rst, after:

Creating and dropping tables groups
===================================

Tables groups configuration principles
--------------------------------------

Configuring a tables group consists in:

* defining the tables group characteristics,
* defining the tables and sequences to assign to the group,
* optionnaly, defining some specific properties for each table.

The tables group
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A tables group is identified by its **name**. Thus, the name must be unique withing the database. A tables group name contains at least 1 character. It may contain spaces and/or any punctuation characters. But it is advisable to avoid commas, single or double quotes.

At creation time, the :ref:`ROLLBACKABLE or AUDIT_ONLY <tables_group>` property of the group must be set. Note that this property cannot be modified once the tables group is created. If it needs to be changed, the tables group must be dropped and then recreated.

The tables and sequences to assign
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A tables group can contain tables and/or sequences belonging to one or several schemas.

All tables of a schema are not necessarily member of the same group. Some of them can belong to another group. Some others can belong to any group.

But **at a given time**, a table or a sequence cannot be assigned to more than **one tables group**.

.. caution::

   To guarantee the integrity of tables managed by E-Maj, it is essential to take a particular attention to the tables groups content definition. If a table were missing, its content would be out of synchronisation with other tables it is related to, after an E-Maj rollback operation. In particular, when application tables are created or suppressed, it is important to always maintain an up-to-date groups configuration.

All tables assigned to a *ROLLBACKABLE* group must have an explicit primary key (*PRIMARY KEY* clause in *CREATE TABLE* or *ALTER TABLE*).

E-Maj can process elementary partitions of partitionned tables created with the declarative DDL (with PostgreSQL 10+). They are processed as any other tables. However, as there is no need to protect mother tables, which remain empty, E-Maj refuses to include them in tables groups. All partitions of a partitionned table do not need to belong to a tables group. Partitions of a partitionned table can be assigned to different tables groups.

By their nature, *TEMPORARY TABLE* are not supported by E-Maj. *UNLOGGED* tables and tables created as *WITH OIDS* can only be members of *AUDIT_ONLY* tables groups.

If a sequence is associated to an application table, it is advisable to assign it into the same group as its table, so that, in case of E-maj rollback, the sequence can be reset to its state at the set mark time. If it were not the case, an E-Maj rollback would simply generate a hole in the sequence values.

E-Maj log tables and sequences should NOT be assigned in a tables group.

.. _table_emaj_properties:

Specific tables properties
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Three properties are associated to tables assigned to tables group:

* priority level,
* tablespace for log data,
* tablespace for log index.

The **priority** level is of type *INTEGER*. It is *NULL* by default. It defines a priority order in E-Maj tables processing. This can be espacialy useful at table lock time. Indeed, by locking tables in the same order as what is typically done by applications, it may reduce the risk of deadlock. E-Maj functions process tables in priority ascending order, *NULL* being processed last. For a same priority level, tables are processed in alphabetic order of schema name and table name.

To optimize performances of E-Maj installations having a large number of tables, it may be useful to spread log tables and their index on several tablespaces. Two properties are available to specify:

* the name of the tablespace to use for the log table of an application table,
* the name of the tablespace to use for the index of the log table.

By default, these properties have a *NULL* value, meaning that the default tablespace of the current session at tables group creation is used.

.. _emaj_create_group:

Create a tables group
---------------------

To create a tables group, just execute the following SQL statement::

   SELECT emaj.emaj_create_group('<group.name>',<is_rollbackable>);

The second parameter, of type boolean, indicates whether the group's type is *ROLLBACKABLE* (with value *TRUE*) or *AUDIT_ONLY* (with value *FALSE*). If this second parameter is not supplied, the group is considered *ROLLBACKABLE*.

The function returns the number of created groups, i.e. 1.

.. _assign_table_sequence:

Assign tables and sequences into a tables group
-----------------------------------------------

Six functions allow to assign one or several tables or sequences to a group.

To add one or several tables into a tables group::

   SELECT emaj.emaj_assign_table('<schema>', '<table>', '<groupe.name>' [,'<properties>' [,'<mark>']]);

or::

   SELECT emaj.emaj_assign_tables('<schema>', '<tables.array>', '<group.name>' [,'<properties>' [,'<mark>']] );

or::

   SELECT emaj.emaj_assign_tables('<schema>', '<tables.to.include.filter>', '<tables.to.exclude.filter>', '<group.name>' [,'<properties>' [,'<mark>']] );

To add one or several sequences into a tables group::

   SELECT emaj.emaj_assign_sequence('<schema>', '<sequence>', '<group.name>' [,'<mark>'] );

or::

   SELECT emaj.emaj_assign_sequences('<schema>', '<sequences.array>', '<group.name>' [,'<mark>'] );

or::

   SELECT emaj.emaj_assign_sequences('<schema>', '<sequences.to.include.filter>', '<sequences.to.exclude.filter>', '<group.name>' [,'<mark>'] );

For functions processing several tables or sequences in a single operation, the list of tables or sequences to process is:

* either provided by a parameter of type TEXT array, 
* or built with two regular expressions provided as parameters.

A TEXT array is typically expressed with a syntax like::

   ARRAY[‘element_1’,’ element_2’, ...]

Both regular expressions follow the POSIX rules. Refer to the PostgreSQL documentation for more details. The first one defines a filter that selects the tables of the schema. The second one defines an exclusion filter applied on the selected tables. For instance:

To select all tables or sequences of the schema my_schema::

   'my_schema', '.*', ''

To select all tables of this schema and whose name start with 'tbl'::

   'my_schema', '^tbl.*', ''

To select all tables of this schema and whose name start with ‘tbl’, except those who end with ‘_sav’::

   'my_schema', '^tbl.*', '_sav$'

The functions assigning tables or sequences to tables groups that build their selection with regular expressions take into account the context of the tables or sequences. Are not selected for instance: tables or sequences already assigned, or tables without primary key for *rollbackable* groups, or tables declared *UNLOGGED*.

The *<properties>* parameter of functions that assign tables to a group allows to set values to some properties for the table or tables. Of type *JSONB*, its value can be set like this::

   '{ "priority" : <n> , "log_data_tablespace" : "<xxx>" , "log_index_tablespace" : "<yyy>" }'

where:

* <n> is the priority level for the table or tables
* <xxx> is the name of the tablespace to handle log tables
* <yyy> is the name of the tablespace to handle log indexes

If one of these properties is not set, its value is considered *NULL*.

If specific tablespaces are referenced for any log table or log index, these tablespaces must exist before the function's execution and the user must have been granted the *CREATE* privilege on them.

For all these functions, an exclusive lock is set on each table of the concerned table groups, so that the groups stability can be guaranted during these operations.

All these functions return the number of assigned tables or sequences.

The tables assignment functions create all the needed log tables, the log functions and triggers, as well as the triggers that process the execution of *TRUNCATE* SQL statements. They also create the log schemas if needed.

.. _emaj_drop_group:

Drop a tables group
-------------------

To drop a tables group previously created by the :ref:`emaj_create_group() <emaj_create_group>` function, this group must be already in *IDLE* state. If it is not the case, the :ref:`emaj_stop_group() <emaj_stop_group>` function has to be used first.

Then, just execute the SQL command::

   SELECT emaj.emaj_drop_group('<group.name>');

The function returns the number of tables and sequences contained in the group.

For this tables group, the *emaj_drop_group()* function drops all the objects that have been created by the assignment functions: log tables, sequences, functions and triggers.

The function also drops all log schemas that are now useless.

The locks set by this operation can lead to deadlock. If the deadlock processing impacts the execution of the E-Maj function, the error is trapped and the lock operation is repeated, with a maximum of 5 attempts.
