docs/en/install.rst, before:

Installing the E-Maj software
=============================

Downloading sources
*******************

E-Maj is available for download on the Internet site **PGXN**, the PostgreSQL Extension Network (https://pgxn.org/dist/e-maj/).

E-Maj and its add-ons are also available on the **github.org** Internet site:

* source components (https://github.com/beaud76/emaj)
* documentation (https://github.com/beaud76/emaj_doc)
* plug-in for phpPgAdmin (https://github.com/beaud76/emaj_ppa_plugin)
* Emaj_web GUI (https://github.com/beaud76/emaj_web)


Installation on Linux
*********************

Download the latest E-Maj version by any convenient way. If the *pgxn client* is installed, just execute the command::

	pgxn download E-Maj

Then decompress the downloaded archive file and execute the installation procedure with the following commands::

	unzip e-maj-<version>.zip

	cd e-maj-<version>/

	sudo cp emaj.control $(pg_config --sharedir)/extension/.

	sudo cp sql/emaj* $(pg_config --sharedir)/extension/.

The latest E-Maj version is now installed and referenced by PostgreSQL. The e-maj-<version> directory contains the file tree :doc:`described here <content>`.


Installation on Windows
***********************

To install E-Maj on Windows:

* Download the extension from the *pgxn.org* site,
* Extract the file tree from the downloaded zip file,
* Copy the files *emaj.control* and *sql/emaj--** into the share\\extension folder of the PostgreSQL installation folder (typically c:\\Program_Files\\PostgreSQL\\<postgres_version>)

Alternate location of SQL installation scripts
**********************************************

The *emaj.control* file located in the *SHAREDIR/extension* directory of the PostgreSQL version, may contain a directive that defines the directory where SQL installation scripts are located.

So it is possible to only put the *emaj.control* file into this *SHAREDIR/extension* directory, by creating a pointer towards the script directory.

To setup this, just:

* identify the precise location of the *SHAREDIR* directory by using the shell command ::

   pg_config --sharedir

* copy the *emaj.contol* file from the root directory of the decompressed structure into the *SHAREDIR/extension* directory,
* adjust the *directory* parameter of the *emaj.control* file to reflect the actual location of the E-Maj SQL scripts.

Commit message:

In the documentation, change the linux installation procedure again. Only copy into $SHAREDIR/extension files emaj--* (instead of emaj*). And give information to solve cases when the pg_config command is not installed. Reported by mayeulk, with change suggestions.

docs/en/install.rst, after:

Installing the E-Maj software
=============================

Downloading sources
*******************

E-Maj is available for download on the Internet site **PGXN**, the PostgreSQL Extension Network (https://pgxn.org/dist/e-maj/).

E-Maj and its add-ons are also available on the **github.org** Internet site:

* source components (https://github.com/beaud76/emaj)
* documentation (https://github.com/beaud76/emaj_doc)
* plug-in for phpPgAdmin (https://github.com/beaud76/emaj_ppa_plugin)
* Emaj_web GUI (https://github.com/beaud76/emaj_web)


Installation on Linux
*********************

Download the latest E-Maj version by any convenient way. If the *pgxn client* is installed, just execute the command::

	pgxn download E-Maj

Then decompress the downloaded archive file with the commands::

	unzip e-maj-<version>.zip

	cd e-maj-<version>/

Identify the precise location of the *SHAREDIR* directory. Depending on the PostgreSQL installation, the *pg_config --sharedir* shell command may directly report this directory name. Otherwise, look at typical locations like:

* */usr/share/postgresql/<pg_version>* for Debian or Ubuntu
* */usr/pgsql-<pg_version>/share* for RedHat or CentOS

Copy some files to the extension directory of the postgresql version you want to use. As a super-user or pre-pended with sudo, type::

	cp emaj.control <SHAREDIR_directory>/extension/.

	cp sql/emaj--* <SHAREDIR_directory>/extension/.

The latest E-Maj version is now installed and referenced by PostgreSQL. The e-maj-<version> directory contains the file tree :doc:`described here <content>`.


Installation on Windows
***********************

To install E-Maj on Windows:

* Download the extension from the *pgxn.org* site,
* Extract the file tree from the downloaded zip file,
* Copy the files *emaj.control* and *sql/emaj--** into the share\\extension folder of the PostgreSQL installation folder (typically c:\\Program_Files\\PostgreSQL\\<postgres_version>)

Alternate location of SQL installation scripts
**********************************************

The *emaj.control* file located in the *SHAREDIR/extension* directory of the PostgreSQL version, may contain a directive that defines the directory where SQL installation scripts are located.

So it is possible to only put the *emaj.control* file into this *SHAREDIR/extension* directory, by creating a pointer towards the script directory.

To setup this, just:

* copy the *emaj.contol* file from the root directory of the decompressed structure into the *SHAREDIR/extension* directory,
* adjust the *directory* parameter of the *emaj.control* file to reflect the actual location of the E-Maj SQL scripts.
