docs/en/otherGroupsFunctions.rst, before:

Other tables groups management functions
========================================

.. _emaj_reset_group:

Reset log tables of a group
---------------------------

In standard use, all log tables of a tables group are purged at :ref:`emaj_start_group <emaj_start_group>` time. But, if needed, it is possible to reset log tables, using the following SQL statement::

   SELECT emaj.emaj_reset_group('<group.name>');

The function returns the number of tables and sequences contained by the group.

Of course, in order to reset log tables, the tables group must be in *IDLE* state.

.. _emaj_comment_group:

Comment a groups
----------------

It is possible to set a comment on a group :ref:`when it is created<emaj_create_group>`. But this can be also done later with::

   SELECT emaj.emaj_comment_group('<group.name>', '<comment>');

The function doesn't return any data.

To modify an existing comment, just call the function again for the same tables group, with the new comment.

To delete a comment, just call the function, supplying a *NULL* value as comment.

Comments are stored into the *group_comment* column from the *emaj_group* table, which describes … groups. 

.. _emaj_protect_group:
.. _emaj_unprotect_group:

Protect a tables group against rollbacks
----------------------------------------

It may be useful at certain time to protect tables groups against accidental rollbacks, in particular with production databases. Two functions fit this need.

The *emaj_protect_group()* function set a protection on a tables group. ::

   SELECT emaj.emaj_protect_group('<group.name>');

The function returns the integer 1 if the tables group was not already protected, or 0 if it was already protected.

Once the group is protected, any *logged* or *unlogged rollback* attempt will be refused.

An *AUDIT_ONLY* or *IDLE* tables group cannot be protected.

When a tables group is started, it is not protected. When a tables group that is protected against rollbacks is stopped, it looses its protection.

The *emaj_unprotect_group()* function remove an existing protection on a tables group. ::

   SELECT emaj.emaj_unprotect_group('<group.name>');

The function returns the integer 1 if the tables group was previously protected, or 0 if it was not already protected.

An *AUDIT_ONLY* tables group cannot be unprotected.

Once the protection of a tables group is removed, it becomes possible to execute any type of rollback operation on the group.

A :ref:`protection mechanism at mark level <emaj_protect_mark_group>` complements this scheme.

.. _emaj_force_stop_group:

Forced stop of a tables group
-----------------------------

It may occur that a corrupted tables group cannot be stopped. This may be the case for instance if an application table belonging to a tables group has been inadvertently dropped while the group was in *LOGGING* state. If usual :ref:`emaj_stop_group() <emaj_stop_group>` or :doc:`emaj_stop_groups() <multiGroupsFunctions>` functions return an error, it is possible to force a group stop using the *emaj_force_stop_group()* function. ::

   SELECT emaj.emaj_force_stop_group('<group.name>');

The function returns the number of tables and sequences contained by the group.

The *emaj_force_stop_group()* function performs the same actions as the :ref:`emaj_stop_group() <emaj_stop_group>` function, except that:

* it supports the lack of table or E-Maj trigger to deactivate, generating a “warning” message in such a case,
* it does NOT set a stop mark.

Once the function is completed, the tables group is in *IDLE* state. It may then be dropped, using the :ref:`emaj_drop_group() <emaj_drop_group>` functions.

It is recommended to only use this function if it is really needed.

.. _emaj_force_drop_group:

Forced drop of a tables group
-----------------------------

It may happen that a damaged tables group cannot be stopped. But not being stopped, it cannot be dropped. To be able to drop a tables group while it is still in *LOGGING* state, a special function exists.::

   SELECT emaj.emaj_force_drop_group('<group.name>');

The function returns the number of tables and sequences contained by the group.

This *emaj_force_drop_group()* functions performs the same actions than the :ref:`emaj_drop_group() <emaj_drop_group>` function, but without checking the state of the group. So, it is recommended to only use this function if it is really needed.

.. note::

   Since the :ref:`emaj_force_stop_group()<emaj_force_stop_group>` function has been created, this *emaj_force_drop_group()* function becomes useless. It may be removed in a future version.

Exporting and importing tables groups configurations
----------------------------------------------------

A set of functions allow to export and import tables groups configurations. They may be useful to deploy a standardized tables group configuration on several databases or to upgrade the E-Maj version by a complete extension  :ref:`un-install and re-install<uninstall_reinstall>`.

.. _export_groups_conf:

Export a tables groups configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Two versions of the *emaj_export_groups_configuration()* function export a description of one or several tables groups as a JSON structure.

A tables groups configuration can be written to a file with::

   SELECT emaj_export_groups_configuration('<file.path>', <groups.names.array>);

The file path must be accessible in write mode by the PostgreSQL instance.

The second parameter is optional. It lists in an array the tables groups names to processed. If the parameter is not supplied or is set to NULL, the configuration of all tables groups is exported.

The function returns the number of exported tables groups.

If the file path is not supplied (i.e. is set to NULL), the function directly returns the JSON structure containing the configuration. This structure looks like this::

   {
   	"_comment": "Generated on database <db> with E-Maj version <version> at <date_heure>",
   	"tables_groups": [
   		{
   		"group": "ggg",
   		"is_rollbackable": true|false,
   		"comment": "ccc",
   		"tables": [
   			{
   			"schema": "sss",
   			"table": "ttt",
   			"priority": ppp,
   			"log_data_tablespace": "lll",
   			"log_index_tablespace": "lll",
   			"ignored_triggers": [ "tg1", "tg2", ... ]
   			},
   			{
   			...
   			}
   		],
   		"sequences": [
   			{
   			"schema": "sss",
   			"sequence": "sss",
   			},
   			{
   			...
   			}
   		],
   		},
   		...
   	]
   }

.. _import_groups_conf:

Import a tables groups configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Two versions of the *emaj_import_groups_configuration()* function import a description of tables groups as a JSON structure.

A tables groups configuration can be read from a file with::

   SELECT emaj_import_groups_configuration(<file.path> [,<groups.names.array> [,<alter_started_groups> [,<mark>]]]);

The file must be accessible by the PostgreSQL instance.

The file must contain a JSON structure with an attribute named "tables-groups" of type array, and containing sub-structures describing each tables group, as described in the previous chapter about tables groups configuration exports.

The function can directly import a file generated by the *emaj_export_groups_configuration()* function.

The second parameter is of type array and is optional. It contains the list of the tables groups to import. By default, all tables groups described in the file are imported.

If a tables group to import does not exist, it is created and its tables and sequences are assigned into it.

If a tables group to import already exists, its configuration is adjusted to reflect the target configuration: some tables and sequences may be added or removed, and some attributes may be modified. When the tables group is in *LOGGING* state, its configuration adjustment is only possible if the third parameter is explicitly set to *TRUE*.

The fourth parameter defines the mark to set on tables groups in *LOGGING* state. By default, the generated mark is "IMPORT_%", where the % character represents the current time, formatted as "hh.min.ss.mmmm".

The function returns the number of imported tables groups.

In a variation of the function, the first input parameter directly contains the JSON description of the groups to load::

   SELECT emaj_import_groups_configuration(<JSON.structure> [,<groups.names.array> [,<alter_started_groups> [,<mark>]]]);

.. _emaj_forget_group:

Erase traces from a dropped tables group
----------------------------------------

When a tables group is dropped, data about its previous life (creations, drops, starts, stops) are retained into two historical tables, with the same retention as for other :doc:`historical data<traces>`. But when dropping a tables group that had been mistakenly created, it may be useful to erase this traces immediately to avoid a pollution of these histories. A dedicated function is available for this purpose::

   SELECT emaj.emaj_forget_group('<group.name>');

The tables group must not exist anymore.

The function returns the number of deleted traces.

Commit message:

Add an optional p_comment parameter to the emaj_set_mark_group() and emaj_set_mark_groups() functions to directly record a comment for the set mark. The comment can be modified or deleted by using the emaj_comment_mark_group() function. By default, no comment is recorded. This aligns the SQL API with the Emaj_web features.

docs/en/otherGroupsFunctions.rst, after:

Other tables groups management functions
========================================

.. _emaj_reset_group:

Reset log tables of a group
---------------------------

In standard use, all log tables of a tables group are purged at :ref:`emaj_start_group <emaj_start_group>` time. But, if needed, it is possible to reset log tables, using the following SQL statement::

   SELECT emaj.emaj_reset_group('<group.name>');

The function returns the number of tables and sequences contained by the group.

Of course, in order to reset log tables, the tables group must be in *IDLE* state.

.. _emaj_comment_group:

Comment a groups
----------------

It is possible to set a comment on a group :ref:`when it is created<emaj_create_group>`. But this can be also done later with::

   SELECT emaj.emaj_comment_group('<group.name>', '<comment>');

The function doesn't return any data.

To modify an existing comment, just call the function again for the same tables group, with the new comment.

To delete a comment, just call the function, supplying a *NULL* value as comment.

Comments are mostly interesting when :doc:`using Emaj_web<webUsage>`, that systematically displays them in the groups lists. But they can also be found in the *group_comment* column from the *emaj.emaj_group* table.

.. _emaj_protect_group:
.. _emaj_unprotect_group:

Protect a tables group against rollbacks
----------------------------------------

It may be useful at certain time to protect tables groups against accidental rollbacks, in particular with production databases. Two functions fit this need.

The *emaj_protect_group()* function set a protection on a tables group. ::

   SELECT emaj.emaj_protect_group('<group.name>');

The function returns the integer 1 if the tables group was not already protected, or 0 if it was already protected.

Once the group is protected, any *logged* or *unlogged rollback* attempt will be refused.

An *AUDIT_ONLY* or *IDLE* tables group cannot be protected.

When a tables group is started, it is not protected. When a tables group that is protected against rollbacks is stopped, it looses its protection.

The *emaj_unprotect_group()* function remove an existing protection on a tables group. ::

   SELECT emaj.emaj_unprotect_group('<group.name>');

The function returns the integer 1 if the tables group was previously protected, or 0 if it was not already protected.

An *AUDIT_ONLY* tables group cannot be unprotected.

Once the protection of a tables group is removed, it becomes possible to execute any type of rollback operation on the group.

A :ref:`protection mechanism at mark level <emaj_protect_mark_group>` complements this scheme.

.. _emaj_force_stop_group:

Forced stop of a tables group
-----------------------------

It may occur that a corrupted tables group cannot be stopped. This may be the case for instance if an application table belonging to a tables group has been inadvertently dropped while the group was in *LOGGING* state. If usual :ref:`emaj_stop_group() <emaj_stop_group>` or :doc:`emaj_stop_groups() <multiGroupsFunctions>` functions return an error, it is possible to force a group stop using the *emaj_force_stop_group()* function. ::

   SELECT emaj.emaj_force_stop_group('<group.name>');

The function returns the number of tables and sequences contained by the group.

The *emaj_force_stop_group()* function performs the same actions as the :ref:`emaj_stop_group() <emaj_stop_group>` function, except that:

* it supports the lack of table or E-Maj trigger to deactivate, generating a “warning” message in such a case,
* it does NOT set a stop mark.

Once the function is completed, the tables group is in *IDLE* state. It may then be dropped, using the :ref:`emaj_drop_group() <emaj_drop_group>` functions.

It is recommended to only use this function if it is really needed.

.. _emaj_force_drop_group:

Forced drop of a tables group
-----------------------------

It may happen that a damaged tables group cannot be stopped. But not being stopped, it cannot be dropped. To be able to drop a tables group while it is still in *LOGGING* state, a special function exists.::

   SELECT emaj.emaj_force_drop_group('<group.name>');

The function returns the number of tables and sequences contained by the group.

This *emaj_force_drop_group()* functions performs the same actions than the :ref:`emaj_drop_group() <emaj_drop_group>` function, but without checking the state of the group. So, it is recommended to only use this function if it is really needed.

.. note::

   Since the :ref:`emaj_force_stop_group()<emaj_force_stop_group>` function has been created, this *emaj_force_drop_group()* function becomes useless. It may be removed in a future version.

Exporting and importing tables groups configurations
----------------------------------------------------

A set of functions allow to export and import tables groups configurations. They may be useful to deploy a standardized tables group configuration on several databases or to upgrade the E-Maj version by a complete extension  :ref:`un-install and re-install<uninstall_reinstall>`.

.. _export_groups_conf:

Export a tables groups configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Two versions of the *emaj_export_groups_configuration()* function export a description of one or several tables groups as a JSON structure.

A tables groups configuration can be written to a file with::

   SELECT emaj_export_groups_configuration('<file.path>', <groups.names.array>);

The file path must be accessible in write mode by the PostgreSQL instance.

The second parameter is optional. It lists in an array the tables groups names to processed. If the parameter is not supplied or is set to NULL, the configuration of all tables groups is exported.

The function returns the number of exported tables groups.

If the file path is not supplied (i.e. is set to NULL), the function directly returns the JSON structure containing the configuration. This structure looks like this::

   {
   	"_comment": "Generated on database <db> with E-Maj version <version> at <date_heure>",
   	"tables_groups": [
   		{
   		"group": "ggg",
   		"is_rollbackable": true|false,
   		"comment": "ccc",
   		"tables": [
   			{
   			"schema": "sss",
   			"table": "ttt",
   			"priority": ppp,
   			"log_data_tablespace": "lll",
   			"log_index_tablespace": "lll",
   			"ignored_triggers": [ "tg1", "tg2", ... ]
   			},
   			{
   			...
   			}
   		],
   		"sequences": [
   			{
   			"schema": "sss",
   			"sequence": "sss",
   			},
   			{
   			...
   			}
   		],
   		},
   		...
   	]
   }

.. _import_groups_conf:

Import a tables groups configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Two versions of the *emaj_import_groups_configuration()* function import a description of tables groups as a JSON structure.

A tables groups configuration can be read from a file with::

   SELECT emaj_import_groups_configuration(<file.path> [,<groups.names.array> [,<alter_started_groups> [,<mark>]]]);

The file must be accessible by the PostgreSQL instance.

The file must contain a JSON structure with an attribute named "tables-groups" of type array, and containing sub-structures describing each tables group, as described in the previous chapter about tables groups configuration exports.

The function can directly import a file generated by the *emaj_export_groups_configuration()* function.

The second parameter is of type array and is optional. It contains the list of the tables groups to import. By default, all tables groups described in the file are imported.

If a tables group to import does not exist, it is created and its tables and sequences are assigned into it.

If a tables group to import already exists, its configuration is adjusted to reflect the target configuration: some tables and sequences may be added or removed, and some attributes may be modified. When the tables group is in *LOGGING* state, its configuration adjustment is only possible if the third parameter is explicitly set to *TRUE*.

The fourth parameter defines the mark to set on tables groups in *LOGGING* state. By default, the generated mark is "IMPORT_%", where the % character represents the current time, formatted as "hh.min.ss.mmmm".

The function returns the number of imported tables groups.

In a variation of the function, the first input parameter directly contains the JSON description of the groups to load::

   SELECT emaj_import_groups_configuration(<JSON.structure> [,<groups.names.array> [,<alter_started_groups> [,<mark>]]]);

.. _emaj_forget_group:

Erase traces from a dropped tables group
----------------------------------------

When a tables group is dropped, data about its previous life (creations, drops, starts, stops) are retained into two historical tables, with the same retention as for other :doc:`historical data<traces>`. But when dropping a tables group that had been mistakenly created, it may be useful to erase this traces immediately to avoid a pollution of these histories. A dedicated function is available for this purpose::

   SELECT emaj.emaj_forget_group('<group.name>');

The tables group must not exist anymore.

The function returns the number of deleted traces.
