docs/en/parallelRollbackClient.rst, before:

Parallel Rollback client
========================

On servers having several processors or processor cores, it may be possible to reduce rollback elapse time by paralleling the operation on multiple threads of execution. For this purpose, E-Maj delivers a specific client to run as a command. It activates E-Maj rollback functions though several parallel connections to the database.

Sessions
--------

To run a rollback in parallel, E-Maj spreads tables and sequences to process for one or several tables groups into "**sessions**". Each *session* is then processed in its own thread.

However, in order to guarantee the integrity of the global operation, the rollback of all sessions is executed inside a single transaction.

Tables are assigned to sessions so that the estimated session durations be the most balanced as possible.

.. _parallel_rollback_prerequisite:

Prerequisites
-------------

The provided tool is coded in *perl*. It needs that the **perl** software with the *DBI* and *DBD::Pg* modules be installed on the server that executes the command (which is not necessarily the same as the one that hosts the PostgreSQL instance).

Rolling back each session on behalf of a unique transaction implies the use of two phase commit. As a consequence, the **max_prepared_transactions** parameter of the *postgresql.conf* file must be adjusted. As the default value of this parameter equals 0, it must be modified by specifying a value at least equal to the maximum number of *sessions* that will be used.

Syntax
------

The syntax is::

   emajParallelRollback.pl -g <group(s).name> -m <mark> -s <number.sessions> [OPTIONS]...

The general options are:

* -l specifies that the requested rollback is a :ref:`logged rollback <emaj_logged_rollback_group>`
* -a specifies that the requested rollback is :ref:`allowed to reach a mark set before an alter group operation<emaj_rollback_group>`
* -c <comment> sets a comment on the rollback operation
* -v displays more information about the execution of the processing
* --help only displays a command help
* --version only displays the software version

And the connection options are:

* -d <database to connect to>
* -h <host to connect to>
* -p <ip-port to connect to>
* -U <connection role to use>
* -W <password associated to the role>, if needed

To replace some or all these parameters, the usual *PGDATABASE*, *PGPORT*, *PGHOST* and/or *PGUSER* environment variables can be used.

To specify a list of tables groups in the -g parameter, separate the name of each group by a comma.

The supplied connection role must be either a superuser or a role having *emaj_adm* rights.

For safety reasons, it is not recommended to use the -W option to supply a password. It is rather advisable to use the *.pgpass* file (see PostgreSQL documentation).

To allow the rollback operation to work, the tables group or groups must be in *LOGGING* state. The supplied mark must also correspond to the same point in time for all groups. In other words, this mark must have been set by the same :ref:`emaj_set_mark_group() <emaj_set_mark_group>` function call.

The *'EMAJ_LAST_MARK'* keyword can be used as mark name, meaning the last set mark.

It is possible to monitor the multi-session rollback operations with the same tools as for mono-session rollbacks: :ref:`emaj_rollback_activity()<emaj_rollback_activity>` function, the :doc:`emajRollbackMonitor<rollbackMonitorClient>` command or the Emaj_web rollback monitor page. As for mono-session rollbacks, the :doc:`dblink_user_password<parameters>` parameter must be set in order to get detailed status of the operations progress.

In order to test the *emajParallelRollback* client, the E-Maj extension supplies a test script, *emaj_prepare_parallel_rollback_test.sql*. It prepares an environment with two tables groups containing some tables and sequences, on which some updates have been performed, with intermediate marks. Once this script has been executed under *psql*, the command displayed at the end of the script can be simply run.

Examples
--------

The command::

   emajParallelRollback.pl -d mydb -g myGroup1 -m Mark1 -s 3

logs on database mydb and executes a rollback of group myGroup1 to mark Mark1, using 3 parallel sessions.

The command::

   emajParallelRollback.pl -d mydb -g "myGroup1,myGroup2" -m Mark1 -s 3 -l

logs on database mydb and executes a logged rollback of both groups myGroup1 and myGroup2 to mark Mark1, using 3 parallel sessions.

Commit message:

When opening a dblink connction, call the dblink_connect() function when the installer role is superuser (usual case). Only call dblink_connect_u() when the installer is not superuser. This avoids a preliminary task in the standart emaj installation and enhances the security by avoiding to give risky grants to other non superuser roles.

docs/en/parallelRollbackClient.rst, after:

Parallel Rollback client
========================

On servers having several processors or processor cores, it may be possible to reduce rollback elapse time by paralleling the operation on multiple threads of execution. For this purpose, E-Maj delivers a specific client to run as a command. It activates E-Maj rollback functions though several parallel connections to the database.

Sessions
--------

To run a rollback in parallel, E-Maj spreads tables and sequences to process for one or several tables groups into "**sessions**". Each *session* is then processed in its own thread.

However, in order to guarantee the integrity of the global operation, the rollback of all sessions is executed inside a single transaction.

Tables are assigned to sessions so that the estimated session durations be the most balanced as possible.

.. _parallel_rollback_prerequisite:

Prerequisites
-------------

The provided tool is coded in *perl*. It needs that the **perl** software with the *DBI* and *DBD::Pg* modules be installed on the server that executes the command (which is not necessarily the same as the one that hosts the PostgreSQL instance).

Rolling back each session on behalf of a unique transaction implies the use of two phase commit. As a consequence, the **max_prepared_transactions** parameter of the *postgresql.conf* file must be adjusted. As the default value of this parameter equals 0, it must be modified by specifying a value at least equal to the maximum number of *sessions* that will be used.

It is also necessary to set the :doc:`dblink_user_password parameter into the emaj_param table<parameters>`.

If the extension has been installed by a non *SUPERUSER* role, he must have been granted :ref:`the right to execute the dblink_connect_u(text,text)<create_emaj_extension_by_script>` function.

Syntax
------

The syntax is::

   emajParallelRollback.pl -g <group(s).name> -m <mark> -s <number.sessions> [OPTIONS]...

The general options are:

* -l specifies that the requested rollback is a :ref:`logged rollback <emaj_logged_rollback_group>`
* -a specifies that the requested rollback is :ref:`allowed to reach a mark set before an alter group operation<emaj_rollback_group>`
* -c <comment> sets a comment on the rollback operation
* -v displays more information about the execution of the processing
* --help only displays a command help
* --version only displays the software version

And the connection options are:

* -d <database to connect to>
* -h <host to connect to>
* -p <ip-port to connect to>
* -U <connection role to use>
* -W <password associated to the role>, if needed

To replace some or all these parameters, the usual *PGDATABASE*, *PGPORT*, *PGHOST* and/or *PGUSER* environment variables can be used.

To specify a list of tables groups in the -g parameter, separate the name of each group by a comma.

The supplied connection role must be either a superuser or a role having *emaj_adm* rights.

For safety reasons, it is not recommended to use the -W option to supply a password. It is rather advisable to use the *.pgpass* file (see PostgreSQL documentation).

To allow the rollback operation to work, the tables group or groups must be in *LOGGING* state. The supplied mark must also correspond to the same point in time for all groups. In other words, this mark must have been set by the same :ref:`emaj_set_mark_group() <emaj_set_mark_group>` function call.

The *'EMAJ_LAST_MARK'* keyword can be used as mark name, meaning the last set mark.

It is possible to monitor the multi-session rollback operations with the same tools as for mono-session rollbacks: :ref:`emaj_rollback_activity()<emaj_rollback_activity>` function, the :doc:`emajRollbackMonitor<rollbackMonitorClient>` command or the Emaj_web rollback monitor page. As for mono-session rollbacks, the :doc:`dblink_user_password<parameters>` parameter must be set in order to get detailed status of the operations progress.

In order to test the *emajParallelRollback* client, the E-Maj extension supplies a test script, *emaj_prepare_parallel_rollback_test.sql*. It prepares an environment with two tables groups containing some tables and sequences, on which some updates have been performed, with intermediate marks. Once this script has been executed under *psql*, the command displayed at the end of the script can be simply run.

Examples
--------

The command::

   emajParallelRollback.pl -d mydb -g myGroup1 -m Mark1 -s 3

logs on database mydb and executes a rollback of group myGroup1 to mark Mark1, using 3 parallel sessions.

The command::

   emajParallelRollback.pl -d mydb -g "myGroup1,myGroup2" -m Mark1 -s 3 -l

logs on database mydb and executes a logged rollback of both groups myGroup1 and myGroup2 to mark Mark1, using 3 parallel sessions.
