docs/en/setup.rst, before:

E-Maj extension setup
=====================

If an extension already exists in the database, but in an old E-Maj version, you need to :doc:`upgrade <upgrade>` it.

The standart way to install E-Maj consists in creating an *EXTENSION* object (in the PostgreSQL terminology). To achieve this task, the user must be logged to the database as superuser.

In environments for which this is not possible (cases of :ref:`minimum installation<minimum_install>`), a psql script can be executed.

.. _preliminary_operations:

Optional preliminary operation
------------------------------

The technical tables of the E-Maj extension are created into the default tablespace. If the E-Maj administrator wants to store them into a dedicated tablespace, he can create it if needed and define it as the default tablespace for the session::

   SET default_tablespace = <tablespace.name>;

.. _create_emaj_extension:

Standart creation of the emaj EXTENSION
---------------------------------------

The E-Maj extension can now be created into the database, by executing the SQL command::

   CREATE EXTENSION emaj CASCADE;

After having verified that the PostgreSQL version is at least 9.5, the script creates the *emaj* schema and populate it with technical tables, functions and some other objects.

.. caution::

   The *emaj* schema must only contain E-Maj related objects.

If they are not already present, both *emaj_adm* and *emaj_viewer* roles are created.

Finally, the installation script looks at the instance configuration and may display a warning message regarding the :ref:`max_prepared_transactions parameter<parallel_rollback_prerequisite>`.

Creating the extension by script
--------------------------------

When creating the emaj *EXTENSION* is not possible, a *psql* script can be used instead::

   \i <emaj_directory>/sql/emaj-<version>.sql

where <emaj_directory> is the directory generated by the :ref:`E-Maj installation<minimum_install>` and <version> the current E-Maj version.

.. caution::

   It is not mandatory to execute the installation script as superuser. But if it is not the case, the role used for this installation will need the rights to create triggers on the application tables of the future tables groups.

In this installation mode, all optimizations regarding E-Maj rollbacks are not available, leading to a decreased performance level of these operations.

Changes in postgresql.conf configuration file
---------------------------------------------

Main E-Maj functions set a lock on each table of a processed tables group. If some groups contains a large number of tables, it may be necessary to increase the value of the **max_locks_per_transaction** parameter in the *postgresql.conf* configuration file. This parameter is used by PostgreSQL to compute the size of the *shared lock table* that tracks locks for the whole instance. Its default value equals 64. It can be increased if an E-Maj operation fails with a message indicating that all entries of the *shared lock table* have been used.

Furthermore, if the :doc:`parallel rollback client <parallelRollbackClient>` may be used, it will be probably necessary to adjust the **max_prepared_transactions** parameter.

E-Maj parameters
----------------

Several parameters have an influence on the E-Maj behaviour. They are presented in details :ref:`here <emaj_param>`.

The parameters setting step is optional. E-Maj works well with the default parameter values.

However, if the E-Maj administrator wishes to take benefit from the rollback operations monitoring capabilities, it is necessary to set the **dblink_user_password** parameter into the :ref:`emaj_param <emaj_param>` table and give the E-Maj administrator role the right to execute the **dblink_connect_u** function. :ref:`More details... <emaj_rollback_activity_prerequisites>`

Test and demonstration
----------------------

It is possible to check whether the E-Maj installation works fine, and discover its main features by executing a demonstration script. Under *psql*, just execute the *emaj_demo.sql* script that is supplied with the extension::

   \i <emaj_directory>/sql/demo.sql

If no error is encountered, the script displays this final message::

### This ends the E-Maj demo. Thank You for using E-Maj and have fun!

Examining the messages generated by the script execution, allows to discover most E-Maj features. Once the script execution is completed, the demonstration environment is left as is, so that it remains possible to examine it or to play with it. To suppress it, execute the cleaning function that the script has created::

   SELECT emaj.emaj_demo_cleanup();

This drops the *emaj_demo_app_schema* schema and both *emaj demo group 1* and *emaj demo group 2* tables groups.

Commit message:

Doc: Reword the chapter about postgres configuration changes. And adjust a lot of chapter titles by replacing names by verbs.

docs/en/setup.rst, after:

Create the emaj extension in a database
=======================================

If an extension already exists in the database, but in an old E-Maj version, you need to :doc:`upgrade <upgrade>` it.

The standart way to install E-Maj consists in creating an *EXTENSION* object (in the PostgreSQL terminology). To achieve this task, the user must be logged to the database as superuser.

In environments for which this is not possible (cases of :ref:`minimum installation<minimum_install>`), a psql script can be executed.

.. _preliminary_operations:

Optional preliminary operation
------------------------------

The technical tables of the E-Maj extension are created into the default tablespace. If the E-Maj administrator wants to store them into a dedicated tablespace, he can create it if needed and define it as the default tablespace for the session::

   SET default_tablespace = <tablespace.name>;

.. _create_emaj_extension:

Standart creation of the emaj EXTENSION
---------------------------------------

The E-Maj extension can now be created into the database, by executing the SQL command::

   CREATE EXTENSION emaj CASCADE;

After having verified that the PostgreSQL version is at least 9.5, the script creates the *emaj* schema and populate it with technical tables, functions and some other objects.

.. caution::

   The *emaj* schema must only contain E-Maj related objects.

If they are not already present, both *emaj_adm* and *emaj_viewer* roles are created.

Finally, the installation script looks at the instance configuration and may display a warning message regarding the :ref:`max_prepared_transactions parameter<parallel_rollback_prerequisite>`.

Creating the extension by script
--------------------------------

When creating the emaj *EXTENSION* is not possible, a *psql* script can be used instead::

   \i <emaj_directory>/sql/emaj-<version>.sql

where <emaj_directory> is the directory generated by the :ref:`E-Maj installation<minimum_install>` and <version> the current E-Maj version.

.. caution::

   It is not mandatory to execute the installation script as superuser. But if it is not the case, the role used for this installation will need the rights to create triggers on the application tables of the future tables groups.

In this installation mode, all optimizations regarding E-Maj rollbacks are not available, leading to a decreased performance level of these operations.

Changes in the PostgreSQL instance configuration
------------------------------------------------

Two configuration parameters may need to be changed in the postgresql.conf file:

  * **max_locks_per_transaction** to manage tables groups with a high number of tables. Main E-Maj functions set a lock on each table of a processed tables group. If an E-Maj operation fails with a message indicating that all entries of the *shared lock table* have been used, this parameter must be increased. Its default value equals 64.

  * **max_prepared_transactions**, to use the :doc:`E-Maj parallel rollback client<parallelRollbackClient>`. Its default value is 0, blocking the use of this tool. Its value must be greater or equal the maximum number of concurrent parallel rollbacks operations.

In both cases, the PostgreSQL instance must be restarted.

E-Maj parameters
----------------

Several parameters have an influence on the E-Maj behaviour. They are presented in details :ref:`here <emaj_param>`.

The parameters setting step is optional. E-Maj works well with the default parameter values.

However, if the E-Maj administrator wishes to take benefit from the rollback operations monitoring capabilities, it is necessary to set the **dblink_user_password** parameter into the :ref:`emaj_param <emaj_param>` table and give the E-Maj administrator role the right to execute the **dblink_connect_u** function. :ref:`More details... <emaj_rollback_activity_prerequisites>`

Test and demonstration
----------------------

It is possible to check whether the E-Maj installation works fine, and discover its main features by executing a demonstration script. Under *psql*, just execute the *emaj_demo.sql* script that is supplied with the extension::

   \i <emaj_directory>/sql/demo.sql

If no error is encountered, the script displays this final message::

### This ends the E-Maj demo. Thank You for using E-Maj and have fun!

Examining the messages generated by the script execution, allows to discover most E-Maj features. Once the script execution is completed, the demonstration environment is left as is, so that it remains possible to examine it or to play with it. To suppress it, execute the cleaning function that the script has created::

   SELECT emaj.emaj_demo_cleanup();

This drops the *emaj_demo_app_schema* schema and both *emaj demo group 1* and *emaj demo group 2* tables groups.
