docs/en/uninstall.rst, before:

Uninstalling an E-Maj extension from a database
===============================================

To uninstall E-Maj from a database, the user must log on this database with *psql*, as a superuser.

If the drop of the *emaj_adm* and *emaj_viewer* **roles** is desirable, rights on them given to other roles must be previously deleted, using *REVOKE SQL* verbs. ::

   REVOKE emaj_adm FROM <role.or.roles.list>;
   REVOKE emaj_viewer FROM <role.or.roles.list>;

If these *emaj_adm* and *emaj_viewer* roles own access rights on other application objects, these rights must be suppressed too, before starting the uninstall operation.

Allthough E-Maj is usualy installed with a *CREATE EXTENSION* statement, it cannot be uninstalled with a simple *DROP EXTENSION* statement. An event trigger blocks such a statement.

To uninstall E-Maj, just execute the *emaj_uninstall.sql* **delivered script**. ::

   \i <emaj_directory>/emaj_uninstall.sql

This script performs the following steps:

* it executes the cleaning functions created by demo or test scripts, if they exist,
* it stops the tables groups in *LOGGING* state, if any,
* it drops the tables groups, removing in particular the triggers on application tables,
* it drops the extension and the main *emaj* schema,
* it drops roles *emaj_adm* and *emaj_viewer* if they are not linked to any objects in the current database or in other databases of the instance.

The uninstallation script execution displays::

   $ psql ... -f sql/emaj_uninstall.sql 
   >>> Starting E-Maj uninstallation procedure...
   SET
   psql:sql/emaj_uninstall.sql:203: WARNING:  emaj_uninstall: emaj_adm and emaj_viewer roles have been dropped.
   DO
   SET
   >>> E-maj successfully uninstalled from this database

Commit message:

Add a Makefile to the distribution so that 'sudo make install' and 'sudo make uninstall' commands respectively installs and uninstalls E-Maj. The components are installed into the Postgres installation directories. More precisely: 1) the SQL scripts are copied into a <PG_SHAREDIR>/emaj subdirectory, the emaj.control file is created into the regular <PG_SHAREDIR>/extension directory, 2) the 4 clients components are installed in the <PG_BINDIR> directory and 3) the distributed documentation is copied into the <PG_DOCDIR>/emaj subdirectory. The distribution can also be installed/uninstalled using the pgxn client. Note that the standart PGXS mechanism has not been used because it fails to uninstall documentation and client files coming from subdirectories. However, the Makefile uses the same files locations as PGXS. The documentation is updated to reflect the new installation procedure. (Many thanks to David Wheeler for the reported issue and his valuable advice)

docs/en/uninstall.rst, after:

Uninstall
=========

Uninstalling an E-Maj extension from a database
***********************************************

To uninstall E-Maj from a database, the user must log on this database with *psql*, as a superuser.

If the drop of the *emaj_adm* and *emaj_viewer* **roles** is desirable, rights on them given to other roles must be previously deleted, using *REVOKE SQL* verbs. ::

   REVOKE emaj_adm FROM <role.or.roles.list>;
   REVOKE emaj_viewer FROM <role.or.roles.list>;

If these *emaj_adm* and *emaj_viewer* roles own access rights on other application objects, these rights must be suppressed too, before starting the uninstall operation.

Allthough E-Maj is usualy installed with a *CREATE EXTENSION* statement, it cannot be uninstalled with a simple *DROP EXTENSION* statement. An event trigger blocks such a statement.

To uninstall E-Maj, just execute the *emaj_uninstall.sql* **delivered script**. ::

   \i <emaj_directory>/emaj_uninstall.sql

This script performs the following steps:

* it executes the cleaning functions created by demo or test scripts, if they exist,
* it stops the tables groups in *LOGGING* state, if any,
* it drops the tables groups, removing in particular the triggers on application tables,
* it drops the extension and the main *emaj* schema,
* it drops roles *emaj_adm* and *emaj_viewer* if they are not linked to any objects in the current database or in other databases of the instance.

The uninstallation script execution displays::

   $ psql ... -f sql/emaj_uninstall.sql 
   >>> Starting E-Maj uninstallation procedure...
   SET
   psql:sql/emaj_uninstall.sql:203: WARNING:  emaj_uninstall: emaj_adm and emaj_viewer roles have been dropped.
   DO
   SET
   >>> E-maj successfully uninstalled from this database

Removing the E-Maj software
***************************

The way to remove the E-Maj software depends on the way it has been installed.

For a standart install with the *pgxn* client, a single command is required::

  pgxn uninstall E-Maj --sudo

For a standart install without the *pgxn* client, reach the initial directory of the E-Maj distribution and type::

  sudo make uninstall

For a manual install, the installed components must be removed by reverting the initial installation steps.
