docs/en/webInstall.rst, before:

Installing the Emaj_web client
==============================

Prerequisite
------------

*Emaj_web* requires a web server with a php interpreter.


Plug-in download
----------------

The *Emaj_web* application can be downloaded from the following git repository:
https://github.com/dalibo/emaj_web


Application configuration
-------------------------

The configuration is centralized into a single file: *emaj_web/conf/config.inc.php*. It contains the general parameters of the applications, including in particular the description of the PostgreSQL instances connections.

In order to submit batch rollback (i.e. without blocking the use of the browser while the rollback operation is in progress), it is necessary to specify a value for two configuration parameters:

* *$conf['psql_path']* defines the access path of the *psql* executable file,
* *$conf['temp_dir']* defines a temporary directory that rollback functions can use.

The *emaj_web/conf/config.inc.php-dist* file may be used as a configuration template.

Commit message:

Documentation: large refactoring of the emaj_web chapters. In particular, updates all screen captures to get the new UI look. Rename the image files. Reorder some paragraphs to match the tabs order. And adjust the explanations to fit the application changes.

docs/en/webInstall.rst, after:

Installing the Emaj_web client
==============================

Prerequisite
------------

*Emaj_web* requires a web server with a php interpreter.


Plug-in download
----------------

The *Emaj_web* application can be downloaded from the following git repository:
https://github.com/dalibo/emaj_web


Application configuration
-------------------------

The configuration is centralized into a single file: *emaj_web/conf/config.inc.php*. It contains the general parameters of the applications, and the description of the PostgreSQL instances connections.

When the number of instances is large, it is possible to split them into *instances groups*. A group can contain instances or other instance groups.

In order to submit batch rollbacks (i.e. without blocking the use of the browser while the rollback operation is in progress), it is necessary to specify a value for two configuration parameters:

* *$conf['psql_path']* defines the access path of the *psql* executable file,
* *$conf['temp_dir']* defines a temporary directory that rollback functions can use.

The *emaj_web/conf/config.inc.php-dist* file may be used as a configuration template.
